# Audio-video database from subacute stroke patients for dysarthric speech intelligence assessment and preliminary analysis

## Abstract
Early, objective, and accurate assessment and identification of dysarthria caused by neurological diseases are essential in neurorehabilitation. This could be achieved by a robust smart system. However, developing such a system requires a standard training database that is properly labelled, which unfortunately is currently lacking. The present study aimed to establish a standardized, audio-visual integrated speech database of subacute stroke patients with dysarthria, named “The Mandarin Subacute Stroke Dysarthria Multimodal (MSDM) Database”, which included audio-visual data from 25 subacute stroke patients and 25 healthy participants. In addition, comprehensive subjective clinical assessment information of speech-motor function and ecological psychology of each patient was also provided. Based on this database, a pilot study was conducted to detect the significant acoustic and visual characteristics that revealed the severity of dysarthria related to subacute stroke. The present study offered a novel perspective to objectively quantify and identify the pathological differences in speech production. It can serve as a baseline for the development of an automatic intelligent system for assessing severity of dysarthria. In conclusion, the establishment and analysis of high-quality database on articulation errors associated with dysarthria will benefit clinical treatments and contribute to the realization of automatic diagnostic tools that can be implemented for clinical telehealth services.

## Citation
Liu, Juan, et al. "Audio-video database from subacute stroke patients for dysarthric speech intelligence assessment and preliminary analysis." Biomedical Signal Processing and Control 79 (2023): 104161.